CASCADE — sessions 137 to 152. READ THIS BEFORE COMMITTING.

Three things must happen by hand. Do them in this order: the migration, the
deletions, then the APK.


== 1. RUN THE SUPABASE MIGRATION FIRST, BEFORE INSTALLING ==

ALREADY RUN IT? SKIP THIS. Session 149 adds no columns. This section is here
because the zip is cumulative from session 136, so it still matters if you have
not yet run it.

Session 148 added two columns to cascade_task. Run migrate_a22.sql in the
Supabase SQL editor BEFORE you install this build.

  migrate_a22.sql

WHY IT CANNOT WAIT: schema.sql says "create table if not exists", which does
nothing at all to a table that already exists. So a new column never arrives
from schema.sql. Every new column needs its own migration, and this one adds:

  calendar_uid        text     default ''     — which Google event a task came from
  calendar_detached   boolean  default false  — whether he has edited it since
  a partial index on (owner, calendar_uid) where calendar_uid <> ''

Both have defaults, so every row already in the table reads as a task that did
not come from a calendar. Nothing existing changes meaning.

IF YOU SKIP IT: the app will try to write two columns that are not there. The
sync fails on every push and the calendar import saves nothing.


== 2. DELETE SIX FILES BY HAND ==

A zip can add and overwrite files. It cannot delete one. Six files were DELETED
and they must be removed from the repository BY HAND, or gate2.py will fail
saying so.

Delete these six, from D:\AI data\CascadeApp\cascade :

  shell\app.js
  shell\boot.js
  shell\index.html
  shell\render.js
  shell\resolve.stage3.js
  shell\check_render.mjs

WHY: they were the Stage 3 harness. It drew a screen in text characters that
nobody has opened since session 98, and check_render.mjs proved that drawing
matched a picture in example.md. A green check about a screen that does not
exist reads as coverage and is not.

WHAT MOVED: SHELL_VERSION lived inside render.js. It now lives in a new file,
shell\version.js, which holds nothing else. That file IS in this zip.


== 3. THE APK MUST BE REBUILT ==

NOTHING NEW IN SESSION 149. If you already built and installed the build-64 APK,
SKIP THIS WHOLE SECTION. Session 149 is three web-half files and the APK you
have carries everything they need. Calendar shell is still build 2.

Calendar shell build 2. Session 145 added the calendar plugin and session 148
added three read methods to it, so an APK built from the session-147 zip will
report calendar build 1 and the import will not run.

If this is your FIRST calendar build, all four steps. If you already built the
session-145 or session-147 APK, only step 1 changed.

  1. Copy the two calendar files over, keeping the folders:
       android\app\src\main\java\com\cascade\calendar\CascadeCalendarPlugin.kt
       android\app\src\main\java\com\cascade\calendar\CalendarStore.kt
     CascadeCalendarPlugin.kt is the one that changed in 148. It now states
     CALENDAR_BUILD = 2 and carries readable(), events() and uidOf().
  2. Add the two permissions from AndroidManifest-additions.xml:
       READ_CALENDAR and WRITE_CALENDAR
     NO NEW PERMISSIONS IN 148. READ_CALENDAR was already there for the diff,
     and the import needs nothing the push did not already have.
  3. Copy the new MainActivity.java over. It carries ONE EXTRA LINE:
       registerPlugin(CascadeCalendarPlugin.class);
     Without it the APK builds, runs, looks correct, and the account screen
     says the calendar is "not present" with nothing to explain why. That is
     exactly what the alarm cost once.
  4. Rebuild and install.

Nothing in this project compiles Kotlin. The three new methods were checked by
hand for braces, parens and companion counts. That is a statement about care
and not a compiler. If the build fails, send me the error.


== BEFORE YOU RUN gate2.py ==

Install the two tools it uses:

  npm i -g typescript eslint

tsc missing is a FAILURE. eslint missing is a warning.

AFTER DELETING THE SIX FILES, run this and it must say GATE 2: PASS —

  python3 gate2.py

Header should read build 68.


== THEN ON THE PHONE, ACCOUNT SCREEN ==

Writing to the calendar (session 145), if it is not on already:

  Google Calendar -> Allow calendar access -> pick "Writes to" -> Turn on

Reading FROM the calendar (session 148), which is new and is OFF:

  Google Calendar -> tick the calendars you want under each account
                  -> Start reading the calendar
                  -> Import now

NOTHING IS TICKED BY DEFAULT and nothing is read until you tick something and
turn it on. "Import now" prints a full report: how many events were read, how
many tasks added, updated, removed and cancelled, the first error verbatim, and
WHICH UID SOURCE the phone could give — uid2445, syncid or rowid.

READ THAT LAST ONE. If it says rowid, tell me. A rowid is a local row number
and a second phone would compute different task ids from it, which would look
like working sync right up to the day you install the app somewhere else.

"events", "holidays" and "birthdays" are each their own CALENDAR in Google, not
a type of event, which is why the choice is a tick list rather than a switch.


== WHAT CHANGED IN SESSION 152 — INSTALL THIS ONE ==

YOUR PHONE HAS NOT SENT ANYTHING TO THE SERVER FOR HOURS. The pill reading
"5 waiting" is five writes stuck in the outbox. This build is the fix.

WHAT HAPPENED: I put a field called due_phrase on the task record when a
calendar event is imported. It is a computed sentence, not a stored field, so
there is no column for it. Postgres refused the whole row. The outbox stops at
the first failure so that writes stay in order, which means ONE imported task
blocked every write behind it, including tasks you typed yourself.

Nothing is lost. The five are on the phone. They will send by themselves within
a minute of build 68 loading.

UNTIL THEN: do not clear the app's data and do not reinstall it. Those five
writes exist only on that phone.

ALSO IN THIS BUILD:
  - the pill goes AMBER when the queue is stuck. It was green the whole time.
  - the account screen now prints WHY, in the server's own words, naming the
    exact column. That sentence existed all along and went to a log a phone
    cannot show.
  - a new check reads schema.sql and fails if the app ever again produces a
    field with no column, or stops sending one that has.

One new file, shell/store.row.js. It is in the zip. Nothing to do by hand.


== WHAT CHANGED IN SESSION 151 ==

A NEW BUTTON: "List every event", on the account screen under Google Calendar.

It asks the phone for EVERY readable calendar, ticked or not, over the same
10-back / 60-forward window, and prints every calendar with its tick state and
event count, then one line per event:

  [x] exploredreams360@gmail.com - 3 events
  [ ] xplore360tkts@gmail.com - 11 events

  24 Oct 10:00  Collect Rs 57,000 - Asha Achari - Laksh
     NOT TICKED - xplore360tkts@gmail.com - uid2445

PRESS IT AND SEND ME WHAT IT SAYS. It answers the one thing nothing else could:
whether the missing meeting is on a calendar you did not tick, or whether the
phone does not have it at all. Those need opposite fixes.

It is a READ. It writes nothing, to the store or to the calendar, so it is safe
to press at any time.

Also fixed: a task that already existed and needed no change was being counted
as an occurrence the repeat rule folded away. The number was right and the word
was wrong. It now prints as "already right".

YOUR PHONE WAS ON BUILD 65, so this build also carries the session-150 clock
fix (the 7pm meeting that read 1:30pm). One push covers both.


== WHAT CHANGED IN SESSION 150 ==

THE 7PM BUG. A 7pm meeting read 1:30pm, which is 5h30m out, which is your own
offset. Every instant in this engine is LOCAL WALL CLOCK with the offset written
on the end; the Android calendar provider hands over a TRUE epoch instant. One
was passed straight into the other, so 13:30 UTC got labelled 13:30+05:30.

An all-day event is deliberately NOT shifted: the provider stores it as UTC
midnight of the date, so its date already reads correctly, and shifting would
move a phone west of UTC to the previous day.

A second fault of the same kind, found while fixing the first: the
missing-from-calendar window test compared a wall clock against a true instant,
so it was out by the same 5h30m at both edges of the window.

YOUR EXISTING CALENDAR TASKS FIX THEMSELVES. A task still following Google has
its date taken from the calendar on every import, so the next Import now
rewrites the wrong time. One you had already edited is detached and keeps YOUR
correction, which is what detached means.

THE REPORT NOW ACCOUNTS FOR EVERY EVENT:

  Read 13 events.
  Added 0, updated 0, removed 0, cancelled 0.
  Skipped: 9 already ours, 1 declined, 1 not ready yet, 2 later in a repeat.
  Event ids from: syncid 13.

The four skip numbers sum to the read count, so read and added reconcile without
doing arithmetic in your head.


== WHAT CHANGED IN SESSION 149 ==

Three web-half files, and one new rule.

An event on a GOOGLE calendar carrying no permanent id is HELD rather than
imported. "rowid" in your first report meant the event had neither an iCalendar
UID nor a Google event id, so I fell back to the phone's local row number. On a
calendar that does not sync that is fine, because the event exists on that phone
and nowhere else. On a Google calendar it is temporary: Google gives the event a
real id within minutes, and because the task id is derived from the event id, the
same meeting would then compute a DIFFERENT task id. The old task gets deleted
and a new copy added, or CANCELLED if you had edited it, which puts your
correction on the Done tab under a task that no longer exists.

The report now says so rather than hiding it:

  3 events not ready yet: Google has not given them a permanent id.
  Event ids from: uid2445 8, syncid 3, rowid 1.

TELL ME THOSE TWO NUMBERS after your next Import now. If "rowid" stays high over
several hours, Google's adapter on your phone is not writing an id at all and the
answer is a different one.

Any "row:" tasks build 64 already imported are left alone, not deleted. When
Google gives the event a real id, the proper task is added and the row: one goes
in the same pass, so you will not see a duplicate.
